hey everybody welcome to my shop I got
another shop tip for you and I'll show
you something that I've created to help
my efficiency and accuracy and threat
tapping on my lathe so basically what I
created here is this rotating tapping
jig that allows me to put a tap on the
end in this half-inch chuck I have a
handles here to help me turn the jig and
it's also spring-loaded
so this half an inch shaft steel shaft
slides inside this one it's shocked so I
made it so this these handles can be
removal that just threaded so these are
this is a stainless steel 5/16 bolt and
I've turned some aluminum handles down
for it and so that can be removable when
you're doing different types of tapping
it applications so that comes you if you
screw it in like that so what I'm gonna
do here is I'm going to demonstrate how
to tap this really quickly using a very
low slow speed setting 115 rpm on my
lathe here and I already pre drilled the
hole for a quarter inch by 20 tap so
I'll just Chuck this in no note with my
safety glasses on we'll put a little bit
of thread cutter on here and what I do
is I got the lathe on the slower setting
I got it on a forward speed since it's
spring-loaded I'm going just pull it
back a bit turn the lathe on
when a feeling catches let it go stop it
reverse it turn it on
there you go try it stopped so here's
enough close view of my tapping Jake see
again it's just a half-inch chuck that I
got at the hardware store some 1 inch
bar stock that has the two handles while
the top those are 5/16 stain stainless
steel arms with some turned down
aluminum handles and then I have a 1/2
inch bar stock a cold rolled steel that
that goes into the truck that allows you
to use the tail stock to apply extra
pressure on the attachment and it also
lets you to set all up in place so that
that lasts says procedure boys don't on
soft aluminum weakened discs on a small
freely small bit so I felt quite
comfortable putting my hand there for
larger bits tops and with steel I use
this these handles here to turn it in
manually but while the spring and the
tailstock
apply some pressure I hope you found
that useful what I'm gonna do is I'm
going to put a link for the plans on how
to make this down below so have a look
and if you were able to make this I'd
like to hear from you if you have any
other improvements on how you might have
done yours I like to hear from you as
well thanks for watching